um
[Music]
oh
them
good evening everyone how are you all
okay may i ask if you are able to
tell me yesterday quick yes or no
good evening everyone welcome to the
fourth week
of this subject is of
elastic beanstalk uh i would like to
very warmly welcome you all
which is me i would also give you
perhaps a few minutes to settle down
and also give you all
just before i start i can see david can
you hear me
uh it's the audio is not clear so it's
interesting let me see why it's not
clear give me one second okay
yeah thank you
what's up
is this any clear can you hear me
uh
can can everyone see
that is running the wall
is this any clear i mean can you hear me
okay give me a second i'll just make a
few changes just give me a second
stay on there i'll just line again
give me a second
uh
oh
um
[Applause]
good evening everyone i'm back again uh
i would welcome
any feedback or response if
my voice is a little bit clearer
it's much better now thank you good good
excellent thank you very much for
letting me know
that's great i'm very happy to see that
so
welcome everyone welcome to week four
i would also recommend
that you keep yourself muted throughout
the lecture
i will stop for questions and at that
point in time
you're most welcome to ask any questions
that you have
so as you all know uh this is week four
and today we would be talking we would
be talking about a
very interesting
i'm sorry i think you mute yourself
yes someone muted me uh can you please
not try to mute me while i'm talking
please
uh so now i was saying that
um today we would be talking about
elastic
bean stock which is
and if you all remember i wanted to give
you an idea of
how we got here week one was an
introduction if you all remember
including infrastructure as a service
week two was about platform as a service
and the last week was on software as a
service
i feel extremely confident in saying
that
you have been given a very
thorough background and theoretical
knowledge from now
so that you can now start and going to
explore
and build new applications using
cloud technologies and that's exactly
what we are going to do from this week
onwards
from now onwards till the remain there
of this subject
we will all be either be playing with
different aws technologies
or force.com so
what you see on the on the left hand
side here
is uh the elastic bean stock
logo so this is what we would be
learning today i want to introduce you
to the notion of what elastic bean stock
is and then i will explain you
the different types of tiers
in elastic bean stock and there are two
broadly different types of tears
the first one sorry to
interrupt you yours we can't see your
screen
the slide sign in thank you
let me see why that has happened what
about now
yeah it's available now
excellent thank you very much sorry for
the teething issues today i don't know
what's happening today
so as i said we will start off with
what elastic bean stock is and then we
will try to understand the different
types of tears
in the elastic beam stock and there are
broadly speaking two different types of
tiers
the web server tier and the worker tier
we will try to understand what a web
server tier is
and i will also jump onto the aws
console
and give you a demonstration of the
working of the web server tier
then we will try to understand what the
worker tier is
and then i will give you a demo as well
at the end of today's lecture you should
all
be very confident and you should all be
able to understand
the purpose of elastic bean stock and
how
and when you can use it and more
importantly
the different types of tiers
so in a very simple
in a nutshell elastic beanstalk is
amazon's version of platform as a
service
it gives you an extremely easy to use
platform for deploying
and scaling web applications
mind you i've not used the word
developing
that means it doesn't give you elastic
bean stock doesn't give you the
capability to write
code but it gives you the ability
if we have written your code it gives
you the ability to deploy
and run it globally
the beauty of elastic bean stock is that
as you will see in a little while it
supports
a whole host of different languages
starting from java.net php
node.js python you're spoiled for choice
in terms of the platforms that you can
select or choose from
and remember so a professor for
encryption i can't see slides
i can
yep i can see that it is being like
i can see that it is being uh
broadcasted i can see it from the here
so i don't know why you're not able to
see
i didn't see in it's your video
can everyone else see my slides please
yes yes yep yes okay yeah
see good so yes can you i mean
um if you're not able to see it i would
suggest close your teams and then reopen
it again
that might do the trick bottom right you
can
swap back and forth between the exactly
your
exact new presentation
that's something you can do at your end
so
as i said elastic bean stock is platform
as a service
so what that means is that if i am
if i have written my code and if i'm
deploying my code
there are a lot of underlying or
activities that need to be carried out
in the process of
deploying and scaling my web
applications
things like provisioning
virtual machines setting up their load
balancers
setting up their security policies
setting up databases
setting up web servers all that
because this is a managed platform as a
service
you don't need to worry about them just
upload your code
deploy it and let amazon
or in this case amazon elastic beanstalk
do all the overheads associated with
deploying and running such
global web applications so this is
the whole essence of elastic bean stock
i want to show you all
a short video of few minutes so that
you are able to better understand and
grasp
elastic bean stock just give me a minute
please
while i show the video to you all
okay so i believe you should be able to
see my screen now
and i'm playing the video now if you're
not able to see it please let me know
we couldn't hear the sound though
okay
is
look there is something uh i'll look we
look at the video later let's get on
with the lecture i'll perhaps
show it to you at the end of today's
lecture
so as i said elastic beanstalk
is nothing but a managed platform as a
service
for deploying and scaling
web-based applications so as a developer
it there are many benefits of using
elastic bean stock
the first one is that
it offers extremely quick and easy
deployment
you will see that in a few minutes that
when i go to the console
when i specify my parameters
and when i click on deploy it takes
perhaps
three to four minutes for the beanstalk
environment to behind the scenes
do all the underlying activities that
need to be done to be able to deploy
an application on the web
that's the first thing the second thing
is that as a developer and if you are a
software developer
you would like to write software code
and deploy it and make changes to it
again and deploy it again and keep on
testing it again
you do not want to be bogged down and
you do not want to spend time on doing
things like
configuring servers maintaining them
[Music]
configuring databases firewalls security
policies
networks and the like and
amazon elastic bean stock is your best
friend
in that regard in the sense that it
allows you
to just focus on the code
write the code deploy it leave
all these underlying activities
to amazon to take care of
the third benefit of elastic bean stock
is that as
you will see not in today's lecture but
in next week's lecture
is that it gives you quite
granular control what i mean by that
is it gives you the ability to specify
the security policies for your bin stock
environment
you can specify the size of the auto
scaling group
as in how many ec2 instances
i should have in my group
it gives you the ability to specify
health parameters as in
when should i regard a given ec2
instance as being unhealthy
it gives you the ability even to select
ec2 instance type
and database parameters so as you will
see not in today's lecture but in next
week's lecture
it gives you quite granular
control over the under underlying
hardware resources that you are going to
launch using your environment uh
that's the third benefit of elastic
bean stock the last and not the least
is that actually
elastic bean stock as a service is
free you don't have to pay for elastic
bean stock
however when elastic bean stock
launches or when you're trying to deploy
an application using elastic bean stock
it in turn invokes a number of different
aws resources
like ec2 instance like load balancers
like
security groups like s3 buckets
you would have to pay for that resource
usage
not for elastic bean stock itself
okay so moving forward before we get any
further
there are few terms that i think you
should
understand and be able to appreciate the
difference between them
so that once when we talk about the web
server tier and the worker tier you are
able to understand
and use these terms confidently so the
first thing
in elastic bean stock is something known
as an
application let us say that i am a
software development house
and i am writing a credit risk
assessment
application this credit risk assessment
application it does two things
the first thing is for a given user say
joe blogs what it does is it
it makes an intelligent decision about
number one is this should we give
or should we give a line of credit to
this person
and number two if we should give a line
of credit
what's the dollar value or what's the
amount of credit
that we should give so this is quite a
big
and complex software application and
clearly
there are two strong threats there
the first one is the decision
should we give credit to this person yes
or no
and the second one is if we are giving
credit to this person
what's the dollar value of credit that
we are extending is it ten thousand
dollars
fifty thousand dollars or even more
now as you can see this is quite a
big software application understandably
this software application will be
developed in iterations
it will not be developed in one go okay
so this what what will happen is this
application
will have a number of smaller
versions the first version can just be
the tool or the mechanism for
say making a decision of whether
risk whether credit should be awarded
the second one could be testing of that
and revisions based on that
the third one could be the module which
makes
decisions on how much credit should be
extended
the fourth one could be beta testing on
that so there could be
in other words in the life of
development or
in the life of a software application it
is never written
in one go it is written in a number of
different iterations
aws elastic bean stock allows you the
ability to
capture the fact that you can have an
application
in this case a credit risk assessment
and it can have
multiple versions or multiple iterations
of it
okay and each version like say
let us talk about the first version
which is simply
about the fact that looking at an
application
somehow making an intelligent decision
um whether or whether credit should be
awarded to that person
yes or no and the way that this is done
is
we perhaps send out queries to
different people who have been nominated
as referees
and based on that we make a decision
okay
so this version i may have developed it
and when i deploy it in elastic bean
stock it uses
certain amazon resources resources like
ec2 instances databases
load balancers ip addresses
the collection of all these resources
that a given application version
consumes is known as an environment
okay however as a developer
i may be able to test my
code or my application version
i may be able to test it on multiple
environments
say for beta testing or for alpha
testing
or maybe not even for testing i want to
see how my
application behaves when i change the
underlying
parameters of the environment like the
number of ec2 instances
or load balancer so i have the
flexibility to
run a given application version on
multiple different types of environments
so this is the relationship between
an application application version
and an environment that you need to i
hope that this is clear
an application as i said is written over
multiple iterations or in other words
versions and each version i can
choose either to run it on a single
environment
or i have the flexibility to run it over
n number of different environments
okay in the process
of developing not developing but
deploying
your application on elastic bean stock
these are the four steps that you will
have to follow
the first one is you create an
application which means
and this is beanstalk doesn't provide
the development tools
for you to be able to create an
application offline or maybe using your
favorite
compilers or ides you create an
application
once the application has been created
you
upload it in the bin stock environment
and we will go
and do that in a few minutes once it has
been uploaded
it to run the application it launches
its own aws
environment without you doing anything
and once the environment is running you
have to
you have to keep you have to keep an eye
out for it it may be the case that you
are not happy with the performance of
the application
and and in that case what you do is you
come back
and make some small changes to the
application itself
and it runs in a new environment again
so this is the whole workflow or the
life cycle
of deploying and running applications
in an elastic b stock environment
so having understood about elastic bean
stock
and more importantly about the different
um
about the about what an environment is
let's move on into the different types
of environments
there are broadly speaking two different
types of environments
but it's essential to understand the
purpose of each one of them
and the and their relationship so
the whole idea of elastic bean stock is
to be able to
deploy and run
um web facing or web-based
applications so the web server
environment
is meant to facilitate exactly that
the fact that i can deploy
in this case the credit risk assessment
application that i have developed
i can write my code offline
deployed on elastic bean stock and let
aws and elastic bean stock worry about
the deployment and the scale out or the
or the management of the fleet of
instances
okay the web server environment is meant
to handle or is meant to take care of
exactly
that purpose is meant to
look after applications which run or
which have a
or are running in a web server or with
the consumers
however as is the case with almost
all applications let us take the credit
risk
assessment application
there could be many applications can be
computationally expensive or
can be time consuming like in the case
of
credit risk assessment it may be the
case that
in order to find out or in order to make
a judgment
on whether to give credit to a given
person
yes or no i have to send out
email requests or online requests to
multiple people
i have to wait for them to reply
collate their responses and then make a
decision
this is a time intensive process okay
similarly in order to make a decision
about
how much credit i should give to a given
individual it may be the case that i'm
running ai
algorithms again that is a
computationally
intensive process the whole idea
of a worker environment is to
abstract away or take away
these time con these time intensive
and resource consuming
processes away from the web server and
assign it to a different environment
so that they can run in their own
environment
and that environment is the worker
so as you can see essentially the worker
environment
is nothing but is like a supporting
actor or a supporting role
to the web server environment and it
helps
the web server environment in carrying
out
resource con intensive and time
intensive
activities so this is the entire
architecture of the web server
and environment let us go through this
and then i will jump onto the console
and explain this to you coming
on the back of an aws ec2 lab that you
have done
last week and in which there was load
balancing as well
you would be able to understand and
appreciate this diagram
that you see on on on the screens
so as a end user and you will see this
in a little while when i provision an
environment i will get an elastic
beanstalk environment which is
the one in the the blue circle here
at the outer rim and that environment is
referred to by a url here
and i will be given that url
underneath or encompassing that
environment
are a whole host of other resources
which you may not necessarily know about
but you are able to configure them to
some extent
the at the heart of your elastic bean
stock environment
are the ec2 instances these are the same
elastic compute cloud instances that we
discussed during week one and you had a
lab
last week about them you can think of
ec2 as the workhorse
of your web server environment so
depending upon your application it will
start off with
i mean depending upon how much you have
specified
it will start off with maybe the base
load as we call it maybe
one or maybe two you have to specify the
minimum number of ec2 instances so it
let us say it starts off with one ec2
instance
okay this ec2 instance
as is common whenever you provision an
ec2 instance
it comes pre-packaged with a security
group
just to remind you all what is a
security group
a security group is a software-based
firewall okay whether you like it or
whether you don't
your ec2 instances come pre-packaged
with a security group
you can add additional load
additional security policies to the
security group
as well so
now one other thing that comes with your
elastic bean stock
environment is the auto scaling group
now you do not need to enable auto
scaling group but it is always a wise
decision or judgment to have auto
scaling group enabled
if you all remember the role of an auto
scaling group
is to keep an eye out on the load
that each active ec2 instance
is serving and that load could be
characterized by multiple parameters
it could be things like the number of
requests
and ec2 instances serving it could be
average delay that is being encountered
by each user a whole host of different
things
and if
you have enabled auto scaling group
and when these and if the
health parameters at the if the
specified health parameters
that you have specified are met what it
does
what the auto scaling group does is it
can automatically
scale up the size of your group either
up or down and that is the whole idea of
auto scaling group
and to scale up or scale down
the auto scaling group the one in the
black dotted line here
it works hand in hand with the elastic
load balancer
what's the elastic load balancer the
role of the elastic load balancer is to
spread the load the incoming
traffic to your beanstalk environment
amongst the amongst the number of ec2
instances
there are different ways for load
balancing
and we will learn about them in next
week's lecture
you could use round robin balancing
which means
you could go with the you could go in a
linear manner and then come back again
so we will discuss about different load
balancing policies
in the neck in next week's lecture
and last but not the least whenever you
lost whenever you launch an ec2 instance
it has to launch in an availability zone
so you can specify your availability
zone and
this instance and the others that you
have specified
they always get launched within that
availability zone
and that is specified by the orange
dotted
line that you can see here now i'm
hovering my mouse over it
so this is the whole architecture of
elastic bean stock
you as an end user if you're not
technically
oriented you don't need to worry about
load balancers
ec2 instances the fact that
you have to launch it in an availability
zone
leave all that to aws okay
also for most web-based applications
you need a database
of some sort and
a database comes pre-packaged with your
elastic bean stock environment
and again there is a default security
group
associated with that database so this is
the overall
architecture of the web server
environment here
and as i said at the heart of it is the
ec2 instance
so the ec2 instance is
as i said can run software applications
let me now go and explain you all
how it does that and i will take you all
to the console
to be able to demonstrate how it
it does its job
so this is how i'm sure you would be
aware of the aws console
given that we have been talking about
this for some time and also
the fact that you have done a lab on
this already
so the service that i want is elastic
in stock so the first one here let me go
and select it
i can see that i have already
i have already two environments
in my account which is great
i already have perhaps an application
but
let me go here and i'll try to create
a new application okay
now i want you to pay notice to this
um when i try to press on this button
create new application
it doesn't ask me for the environment
type
remember i told you that there are two
different types of environments
um web server environment
and the worker environment so if i go to
an application
and create a new application it
doesn't ask me for the type of
environment
similarly if i have to go to an
environment and i
create a new environment it then asks me
for the type of
environment whether it is a web server
environment
or a worker environment
nonetheless i want to create a new
application so that's where i go
create a new application
my first elastic bean stock application
i will give it a legible name and what i
do
is i just create so all i have done
is i have only created an
application in other words i've only
created a folder
however i have not launched
any resources against this application
so to be able to do that i click on
create a new environment
and i say okay i want to run in web
server environment
and then i go to select so it says okay
this is your application name
in this application name this is the
environment that
this is the name of the environment that
it is going to create
i can give my environment a
a url and luckily my name is available
and now it's asking me in the platform
section
it's asking me to select a platform
so let me click on my options
you can see that i've got dotnet on
linux and windows
i've got docker glass fish
go remember i explained you all that go
is an open source programming language
developed by google java
node js the list is quite extensive
tomcat ruby python so let me go with
java which happens to be my favorite
programming language and
i would go with say this version of java
okay query to 11 and this is the version
so if i am going to be making use
i think someone has unmuted themselves
okay so if i'm going now i've said that
this is the platform i want i want java
i want uh maybe java 8
this platform version and i say that
okay
just go with the sample application or i
can upload
my own code in doing so i can specify my
code upload it
as a public s3 bucket as well but let me
make keep things simple let me go and
uh use the sample application
and now i'm saying create environment
so first thing i want to make it clear
that what it will do is that
this template it says okay java i
um it will go and it will create a
clone of an existing ec2 instance
that has the java platform running
on a 64-bit linux machine and with this
version so it will take that
and it will create a clone of that this
process
is also known as containerization the
fact that
they already have a packaged
software application in this case java
sitting there and when needed like in
this case they're going to take it
and they're going to clone that pack
package software application to create
new ec2 instances
that is known as containers okay
so while we are on the console let me go
and
create environment
please keep a very close eye on the
event that happening
so first it says that 6 44 right now
it has provisioned an s3 bucket mind you
i did not ask it to do anything i did
not say that i needed an s3 bucket
but it realized that as a part of a
web-based application
you would need an i would need an s3
bucket or rather
my application would need an s3 bucket
and it provisioned it
similarly it created a new security
group and this is the name
and this security group it would be
wrapped around my ec2 instance
let's see what more it does
it automatically created an auto scaling
group
i did not ask it once again to do that
but
hey any web-based application would need
to scale up or scale down
and this is what it's it's doing i can
switch it off
but i'll tell you how you can do that in
next week's lecture let's see what more
it does
so so far it has provisioned a security
group
an auto scaling group and
also an s3 bucket
[Applause]
the next thing if i'm not wrong would be
launching the ec2 instance
itself and it will give me an instance
id
[Applause]
and this is the ec2 instance i'm talking
about so
depending upon my template
it is now going to create a clone and
yes waiting for ec2 instances to launch
this may take a few minutes
so mind you here it has also enabled
amazon cloud watch which is which will
keep an eye out on the performance
of my ec2 instances and report their
health
back to me along multiple different
parameters like latency
response time it has created a load
balancer
for spreading load evenly or
according to different policies that i
can specify
amongst my fleet of ec2 instances
[Applause]
i think the only event we are waiting
for
is the launch of the ec2 instance itself
and yes there it is
so there it is my application is ready
it has been deployed
um you see i launched it
perhaps in three minutes it has
provisioned the entire um
collection of all the resources needed
for me to deploy my application this is
the name of my application i gave this
name
my first eb this is the url
by which i can access my environment
let me click on this and here we go so
the sample code that was there
had this web page sitting in there you
can upload your own
code web web facing and it will be
served to the world okay so this is the
whole
this is how elastic bean stock works
especially in the web server environment
if i want to update my code i can upload
an additional version here you see
upload and deploy furthermore
as i said this is my application my
first eb
application and these are the
application
versions so i have just
one application at the moment i can add
more if i want
one thing i want you to a few things i
want you to show before i go back to the
slides
is in terms of actions
i can clone another environment or i can
terminate it as well
okay i'll show you i mean as i said
the elastic bean stock environment this
the use of this
itself doesn't cost me anything however
i'm paying for my environment which is
how many requests this elast ec2 servers
are
serving um the ec2 servers themselves
load balancers all that i still have to
pay
now if i want to go to the environment
so this is my environment i can
click on this and this is my environment
here which is
well and good but
what i want to draw your attention to is
this
point here which is configuration
if i want to change my underlying
environment that is possible
um i i'm i wouldn't say you can
completely
change it but you can customize it to a
very large degree
and you can do it along multiple
different parameters like
what software is it running what
instances is it running
we will discuss about how you can
customize
the environment of your elastic bean
stock
in next week's lecture we will see how
you can customize the capacity
of the ec2 instances for example load
balancers i can
go back and say enable these load
balancers
or perhaps just don't need them i can
here i can specify the load balancing
policies
similarly i can set up alarms
for to monitor the health of my
instances
so all these things i can very well go
and configure my underlying environment
i have dedicated an entire lecture to
that
and that will be during next week which
is
week five so so far as i said
what we have done is this is my
application here
it's healthy it's running green
it is if i want to access it i can
take this now i can take this url
give it to my clients and it doesn't
matter if my website is getting
10 hits or a billion hits
aws will take care of everything
under under the hood for it for this
web for this application to run at scale
deployment and auto scaling as well
so uh let us go back to the
uh lectures now
give me one second can you i hope you
can see all see my screen the
ppt slides if that's not the case please
let me know
so uh the point at which i went from the
screens to the
to the demo was where i was saying that
you can specify your template the fact
that i want
elastic bean stock to create copies
of a java environment running in linux
mode
and using that server so there are
amazon has these environments as
containers
and they create replicas and and run
them
furthermore running on each ec2 instance
is something known as a host manager
the host manager's role is critical what
it does
is a few things during the process of
provisioning the ec2 instance which you
saw just now
the host manager will take the copy of
the
software resources from the container
and
copy and put it in the local machine so
the host manager plays a critical role
in the cloning process furthermore it
keeps an
eye out on the performance of the ec2
instance
such as the health of the ec2 instances
how many requests they are serving
latency etc and reports it back
via cloud watch or using an api
the second thing is the security group
again you saw
i did not ask aws to launch me
to launch a security group whether you
like it or not
every ec2 and every rds instance
will have a security group and that
security group
comes with a default security policy
which is allow i mean
allow traffic into standard http port 80
and for https for secure traffic
on port 443 you can write
additional security groups as well and
we'll show you
how you can do that next week and you
can write multiple security groups one
on top of each other
and they during runtime they are all
compiled
and executed to make sure whether a
given packet or whether a given
piece of information should be let
inside or not
next thing which you all saw again the
fact that
it automatically launched an auto
scaling group so what that means is that
as a part of auto scaling group i have
a fleet of instances my environment has
a fleet of instances
and i as a user i can specify the
minimum size of that fleet
which could be one and the maximum size
which could be any finite number so
depending upon the group size which is
the minimum
and the maximum aws
and in particular auto scaling group
will vary the size of the
fleet depending upon the traffic sides
to my environment
okay furthermore during next week as we
will see you could have things like
scaling policies that means when should
aws
increase the size of the fleet so if if
the size of the fleet is just one
and this one instance is
is completely overloaded when should it
increase is it based on the fact that
the instance is is handling
a certain predefined threshold of
incoming requests or is it on the fact
that the
latency being experienced by the end
users is
very high so you have to specify
when um the size of the instance
should be increased and by how much so
when
when this is met should i increase it by
one
by two by three or by ten okay
furthermore is load balancing which as
i've been explaining
is how can you balance
the incoming load or the incoming
traffic
in in into the eb environment
amongst the fleet of instances
so should it go to in this case if i go
back here the role of the load balancing
if there is incoming traffic
should it go to instance one two
three or four and why and this process
of
balancing load between the entire fleet
of instances
is known as load balancing and you can
write your own policies for load
balancing
and we i will tell you examples of that
in next week's lecture
and then of course health checks which
are carried out by the
host manager so the host manager will do
these health checks and if it finds that
this ec2 instance is not performing well
report it back so that auto scaling
group can replace it with a healthy
instance
so the basic idea of an auto scaling
group is
you start off with the minimum number of
ec2 instances
minimum as specified in the group size
and then scale up based on
scaling policies and distributed
traffic between the fleet
based on load balancing i hope
that you understand i mean without auto
scaling group
it simply would not be possible to
deploy applications at web scale that
can scale up or down
the last but not the least is the
storage
environment which is this part the
storage component
okay every application every
whether it is web-based or not requires
storage of some sort um
your elastic bean stock environment
comes pre-packaged
with a relational database service
for those of you i mean you would
remember that relational database
service
is a is an
amazon service for storing relational
data
unfortunately you cannot associate
non-relational databases with an elastic
bean stock environment
you can have s3 buckets and those things
but you can't have other databases like
no no sql and all
for the relational database service
you are spoiled for choice in terms of
database
engines you can go with
sql server if that's what your
database engine is or you can go with my
sequel server or
postgresql or oracle
or even amazon aurora
amazon aurora is amazon's version
of relational database engine
it is quite a powerful relational
database engine in the sense that it
combines
it's not just uh fast
but it is quite simple and cost
effective as well
you the counterparts like oracle and
sql server can be very very expensive
very expensive
okay so amazon claims that aurora is
five times faster than uh rds my
my sequel server okay so
um i have shown you all how to create
the web
uh server tier so
these are the steps for those of you who
would like to repeat that process at the
comfort of your own home
i would before i go any ahead i would
perhaps like to stop
and take a few questions
and then go and complete today's lecture
uh if you have got any questions about
all that what i've spoken so
far about elastic bean stock
different environments worker
web application tier please feel free to
ask me
david that's a good comment um
you would be deploying your application
in elastic bean stock next week i think
next week's lab is focused on that
you can figure out yourself
how intuitive how simple
it is to deploy and
leave the hard job of
maintaining your environment to amazon
any questions before i go ahead
rahul you have asked a question what do
you mean by load balancing
are you clear on that now um
yes i got it thank you lord balancing
input means thank you
means the ability to distribute
incoming traffic to your fleet of ec2
instances
okay it seems that
adnan could you please explain web
server environment
and worker environment i am coming to
worker environment
in about as soon as i finish that's my
next topic
and you will see the relationship
between web server environment and
worker environment
it seems to me that there are no
questions so far
so uh let us go
and complete the next part of the
lecture while i'm there i'll try to see
if i have any luck with the video with
showing you all the video
um give me one second
i understand that you are not able to
hear the audio
uh
ah the frustrating job of the accidental
sysadmin
as a developer you just want to build a
great website or mobile app but somehow
always end up as a system administrator
you spend a lot of time managing and
configuring servers
databases load balancers firewalls and
networks instead of coding
whenever you have to scale your servers
to support more users
it becomes a headache because of the
extra time you spend re-architecting
your infrastructure
wouldn't it be nice if you could just
focus on writing code and building a
great product
and hand over the provisioning and
scaling of the infrastructure
and the installation and management of
the application stack to someone else
introducing aws elastic beanstalk
elasticbeanstock is an easy to use
service that deploys
manages and scales web apps and services
for you
elastic beanstalk uses managed
containers that support environments
such as java.net
so you see these are containers like
a container for net environment a
container for java
php that amazon already
has or have in the data center when you
request
for for your ones depending on what
platform you have specified
they simply take that and clone it
php node.js python ruby and docker
on familiar servers such as apache http
server
apache tomcat nginx passenger and iis
elasticbeanstock leverages familiar aws
services such as amazon ec2
s3 simple notification service elastic
load balancing and
auto scaling it's easy to get started on
elastic bean stock
you can use the aws management console
the command line interface or the api
you just choose your platform like
node.js or ruby
and amazon ec2 instance type then
you select additional resources to use
such as amazon relational database
service
or amazon virtual private cloud and then
just upload your code
elastic bean stock will handle the rest
of the deployment details such as
provisioning
load balancing auto scaling and
application health monitoring
elastic bean stock will automatically
scale your application
up and down based on easily adjustable
auto scaling settings
with elastic beanstalk you also retain
full control
over all the aws resources powering your
app
you can take over some or all of the
resources of your infrastructure anytime
so you're not
forced to live with predetermined
configurations
elastic beanstalk lets you focus on
building great web or mobile apps for
your users without spending a lot of
time managing and configuring
infrastructure
you can build things like websites
content management systems
api back-ends and even sas applications
elastic beanstalk can help get you to
market faster
because it's quick and simple to get
started elastic beanstalk
automatically load balances and manages
scale helping to make sure your app is
always available
you can also tweak any elastic beanstalk
resource you want when you need to
giving you complete control under the
hood even better there's no additional
charge for elastic bean stock
you pay only for the aws resources
needed to store and run your
applications
to get started running your applications
with aws elastic beanstalk visit our
website and get your first app
up and running with a few clicks in the
aws management console
so let's come back to the lecture
and then i i have got another video to
show you
but uh we will come to that in due
course
so so far we have learned in detail
about
deploying
web-based or customer
facing applications
and leaving the rest to amazon we
learned how
under the hood they do a range of
processes not just
provisioning a plethora of instances but
auto scaling and all just to make sure
that
come what may your application is is
available
and if you have specified the right
policies
your consumers will experience
minimal latency however
there is a catch there that that you
need to be aware of
let us take the example of the
credit assessment application that i've
been talking about
and let me elaborate on what we do there
so that i can relate
it better the need for a worker
environment so
in the credit application
that i'm i'm developing
stage one what it does is based on the
references that i have given so it could
be references about my
previous lenders or people
the application sends out emails to
those peoples
and waits for them to reply
indicating whether i am a trustworthy
person or a
not a trustworthy person so based on the
replies from two or four or five i don't
know how many people
it does it takes all of them into
account and
makes a judgment whether i'm credit
worthy or not
so that is phase one okay if i'm
credit worthy then we go to the next
phase
and it looks at multiple
parameters to find out a dollar value
and says okay i can we can lend
maybe ten thousand dollars to faro so
assume that these are the two processes
or two broad activities
that this credit application does
okay sweet no problem so i have
developed this
uh credit risk application i have
deployed this
onto the web server here
so what would happen is if i've deployed
it there
um customers are coming back so
let us say don't don't worry about this
so what what would happen is
uh i've deployed this loan application
here or credit application here
so the first customer comes in
and my application it it asks for
the reference details from the customer
and it sends out say five different
emails
to different people and is waiting for a
response from them
so for this activity
waiting for a response from them um
i can say that it may happen
instantaneously or it can take
quite a long time it can take days
together
and during this time the the first
activity which is making judgment on
whether i am carried worthy or not i am
unable to make that judgment i have to
keep on waiting
waiting for people to respond okay
so maybe if i have deployed the
application here
it is as a part of that
there would be resources spent on just
doing nothing but
waiting for people to reply
similarly what would happen is when a
second customer comes in
yeah i can take that and again i can
send out emails to say
five or ten different people for
references
and again i have to go into a waiting
mode
similarly third when that happens
i can the application is well received i
send out requests for reference to 10
people
and go on to a waiting mode
and maybe during this time i have
received
the responses for the first customer in
which case
when i get that and i make it the the
application makes a judgment
that yes this person is credit worthy
and now we move on to the
second stage for the first applicant
only which is
perhaps using a computationally
expensive ai algorithm to find out
the dollar value of credit and again
when i start using the
computationally expensive ai algorithm
the load or the computational resources
are being consumed from this ec2
instance
this ec2 instance one only so when a
fourth application comes in
it may be the case that because
in for two applications for two
applicants two and three
i am still waiting for a response on
their
uh from their uh from the from the
referees or from the people
and for the first application i am
running an ai algorithm
this web server is already
uh overloaded even if it is not
overloaded
it may be the case that it is responding
but the response
is maybe slower it's taking perhaps a
few seconds
for it to respond so you see
in web-based applications invariably
you will have processes
or components or modules whatever you
call it
that will either consume time
or consume a lot of resources
you have the option of
architecting your application in such a
way
that all the processes are carried out
in the ec2 instance one fine but
then you run the risk of the fact that
the response of the responses the the
speed of responses
from easy to instance one could be quite
slow even if that's not happening
it could be the case that this ec2
instance one
is getting overloaded very quickly maybe
after maybe
a handful of requests whereas if it was
just
serving just
web-based queries just the consumer
queries
then it could handle a lot more perhaps
tens of thousands so
this is where the distinction between
web server
and computational server comes into play
so when architecting your application in
inelastic being stock
you could say any any process any module
any activity that is going to consume
time
i will not run it in the web server but
i will
offload it to a different server let's
say
a computationally exp computationally
intensive server that can run
processes very quickly similarly any
process
any module or activity that needs
number crunching or needs a lot of
computational resources
i'm not going to host them here
but i'm going to offload them to
servers that are better able to handle
that
that's exactly the role of a worker here
the role of a worker here is nothing but
a worker tier
are servers that are
perhaps better equipped to
handle processes that require a lot more
computational resources or which are
going to consume
time so instead of putting
everything in the web server or in the
web
server layer and in doing so
delaying the requests or responses
from the web servers why don't we put
them
into the computational servers that's
how
or that's the main idea of
the web server and the worker node
so as i said the
a worker environment only exists
to help a web server environment
without a web server environment
there is no role or no purpose for
a worker environment okay so on its own
the web the worker environment there is
no role i mean
it's meaningless okay and if
a worker environment is actually
geared to handle resource intensive
such as processes that require the use
of ai
resources for example or gpus for
example
or time intensive operations okay
so instead of running them in the
web server tier the idea is to offload
them to the
worker tier okay so it's a clear
decoupling of your web application uh
using a worker environment process so
that
resource and time intensive activities
can be
handled by a worker environment
so that's all good but you might be
wondering
how do the worker environment and the
web server environment how do they
coordinate
communicate and manage
the interaction between each other okay
and this is where i want to introduce
you all to the notion
of q those of you who have been into
programming i'm sure you would
understand what i'm talking about i mean
q is a programming language
construct in which what you do is
you if you have a job you just put it in
a queue
much like when we line up in supermarket
or at mcdonald's to purchase anything
you have to line up first in first in
first out okay so let me explain you
how the web server environment and the
worker environment on the right hand
side how they
interact and how they communicate with
each other
so let's suppose on the left hand side
are web server tiers for my environment
i'm starting off with the base minimum
of 1
and on the right hand side are worker
environments
so for my credit risk application i've
got incoming requests
very good what i'm doing from these
requests is
i've architected the application in such
a way that
process one which is
time intensive in the says that in the
sense that it consumes time
that is being offloaded and i want to
send it to the computational server
similarly process 2 which is which needs
the use of ai algorithm
i want to send it to perhaps a gpu
server
what i could do is i can put this
activity 1 or process 1 and activity 2
or process 2 into a queue
a queue is very similar to i mean q is
as i said is a programming
language construct what you do is
activity one goes first
activity two goes second and you keep on
lining up
okay so that is the cube the
computational servers on the right hand
side what they do
is the the queue here behind the queue
running
always running in behind the queue is
something known as a
daemon process okay it is scanning the
queue 24x7 to find out
if there are any tasks that have been
populated in the queue for execution
and as soon as a task has been is found
the daemon process picks it up and
assigns it to a worker
node or a worker or a computational
server
so activity one may be assigned here
activity two may also be assigned at the
at the web at the at the server one as
well
so you now you see there is clear
decoupling
between the front end of the web servers
and the computationally intensive
activities
the web servers can be much more
responsive
much more agile keep on responding to
queries
much more quickly relatively
when the server one completes their
activities
what they do is they put the information
back
into the queue and the queue notifies
the
ec2 instance one and they get the
information back
but what i want you to focus on is let's
say that
all of a sudden three or four customers
came in
for application again very similar that
information can be populated into the
queue
and because worker node one is busy
um automatically the daemon process
without you doing anything
would scan the queue pull out the
pull out the job and it'll
it'll fire up a new server worker note 2
and again if it if the
auto scaling group on the web server
side finds that
oops uh the number of requests that are
being handled by
ec2 instance one are quite high
and i need to load balance them or i
need to reduce the response
time it can automatically increase
the size of the ec2
of the web server group so as you can
see very
seamlessly the worker nodes
can keep on the size of i mean
the the worker nodes or the fleet of
worker nodes can keep on increasing
and the fleet of the web server nodes
can keep on increasing on the left hand
side as well
and these two they exist
independently of each other in the sense
that
they communicate with each other using
a queue so whenever as i said
the daemon process scans the queue
pulls the information out and gives it
to a server
and when the server is finished when the
server finishes its job
they put it back into the queue and that
information is relayed back to web
servers
so this is without queue without
the q without the concept of queue here
it would simply not be possible for
number one
the worker node and the web server nodes
to be decoupled
in the manner that you see and number
two
to be able to scale up or scale down
very gracefully
as you can see here so what amazon did
was they implemented seeing
how important the notion of
queue is they implemented a
managed queuing service which is known
as
amazon sqs simple
queue service sqs so the basic idea i
mean what you see on the screen right
now
is exactly what i've explained here to
you all
but in this case i'm making use of aws
services icons so on the left hand side
this side here is the
web server environment here i've
explained this to you so
this is your elastic bin stock
application
at the core is the workhorse is the ec2
instances
you have an auto scaling group and
whenever there is a need to offload
applications
computationally intensive applications
this
elastic bean stock environment or the
work of the web server node it makes it
sqs message and it populates it
into a queue okay and
when the queue within the queue as i
said
there is a daemon process running behind
always
in the in the worker node it keeps on
scanning the queue
24 by 7 and whenever there is a new
activity or a new process it picks it up
and it assigns it to either existing
or a new ec2 instance
but the ec2 instances on the right hand
side
are worker nodes okay so i hope you can
see the
interaction between web the web server
nodes and the worker nodes
i repeat again the worker nodes only
exist to supplement
and to help the web server nodes
in responding to their cloud to the
customers in a timely manner
so these are the steps in uh of the
working of the worker node as i said
the first thing is that the web server
environment places
any job in the sqs queue
and step two that there is a daemon
process which is
always running and which is always
polling and looking for
new jobs in the sqsq
when a new job has been found the demon
retrieves it
and either assigns it to an existing
worker node or fires up a new worker
node that's the decision that they make
and when the job is completed by the
worker node
the daemon process notifies the web
server tier
as well so this is how
this is the working of the worker
environment
i would like to show you one video about
amazon simple queue service before we
wind up today's lecture i hope you can
see
my screen now please let me know if you
can't hear the audio
enjoy the video
greetings my name is matt wood and i'm
here at aws headquarters in seattle to
give you an update on the amazon simple
q service
sqs sqs is a fully managed message
queuing service for reliably communicate
distributed software components and
microservices at any scale
sqs makes it simple to decouple
application components so they can run
and fail independently this lets you
build applications that are fault
tolerant and easy to scale
with these concepts of what
matt is saying they are very important i
mean
the worker application and the web
application in this case they are
decoupled
they can fail independently and they can
run independently
but if they were couple if they fail
they
fail as a unit sqs
you can exchange messages between any
number of systems at any volume
without losing messages and without the
overhead of managing dedicated messaging
software and infrastructure now
sqs gives you even more power and
flexibility with the introduction
of an entirely new queue type called
fifo
or first in first out fifo queues are
designed to guarantee that the order in
which messages are placed on a queue
is the order in which they will be
retrieved from it this lets you use
sqs for systems that depend on receiving
messages in exact order
and exactly once such as financial
services and e-commerce applications
for example fifo queues help ensure
mobile banking transactions are
processed in the correct sequence and
the price updates for online retail
sites like amazon
are processed and published in the right
order
fifo queues complement our existing sqs
standard cues
which offer higher throughput best
effort ordering and at least once
delivery
the same api functions apply to both
types of queues
amazon sqs fifo queues are priced at 50
cents per million api requests
the first 1 million monthly requests
free
today we have expanded sqs fifo queues
to us east virginia region
you can get started with sqs fifo queues
using the aws console or sdk
of your choice with just three simple
commands that's it
thanks a lot
so uh one last thing i want to show you
all
is how we can create a worker
environment and that'll
and then we'll draw the lecture to a
close so
uh again i go to my environments
okay you see all mine this is running
here which is quite healthy
i click on create a new environment and
so far i've been saying i need to run a
web web server environment but now i'll
say
i need to run a worker environment
select
and like before i mean i'll say
this is a worker environment application
let the environment name populate by
itself very similar to
um what it was doing in the web server
here it's asking me
tell me the platform that you need
to run your worker nodes so let me again
say that it needs to be run in java
uh java 8 here
and again i can either i can run a
simple application or upload your code
but let me create my environment
i request you all to keep an eye out for
what's happening i mean the activities
that are taking place so
first thing the environment is starting
so once again because this is platform
as a service
it knows that i would need a security
group for my ec2 instances so it has
created one
for me already and remember worker nodes
are nothing but specialized ec2
instances
it has then created an auto scaling
node or group for my worker nodes
please bear with me for perhaps one or
two minutes and it will launch the
worker environment
and then i want to show you the
difference between
the worker environment and the web web
server environment remember in the web
server environment there was a web page
i could see a web page so now it has
added
this is the ec2 instance it has added it
to my environment
and it has added this ec2 instance to
the auto scaling group as well which is
superb
and it has created now a cloud watch to
keep an eye out on for the
health of my ec2 of my worker instances
it should launch my worker environment
anytime now
so remember we started at 7 31
we are two minutes into the process
okay so that's it my environment is now
ready
successfully loaded one scheduled task
and that's the default one
so i can go to my environments uh it's
still great
means it's still happening
sorry still not complete
so that's it successfully launched the
environment so in about
roughly four minutes
so now unlike web server tier you see
which you remember this is my
application name
well and good uh in web server tier i
had a
url a public url where i could see my
application
but that is missing in the web
in the worker environment here and
that's understandable because
the worker environment is not meant
for delivering content to the public at
large
it's meant to supplement the web server
environment here so what you instead see
is the queue that this worker
environment will be
feeding tasks to so if i click on
this queue it's taking me to a different
simple q service and this was launched
about
maybe 7 31 a few minutes ago
this is the queue where uh i mean one of
them is
one of them is an aws eb worker
dead letter q not this one but this is
the queue where
my worker where i would be posting jobs
about posting jobs and the demon process
will be picking it up from this queue
so here's where i could send and receive
messages from
so once again
these are the steps for launching a um
worker environment so that brings us
to the end of today's lecture so as i
said elastic bean stock in in a sense
offers a platform as a service
environment for
deploying your application it doesn't
provide an environment for developing
but deploying them at at scale
and there are two tiers web server tier
is for
is used to handle web facing
applications
the worker tier is it has only one
purpose
to supplement and to help the web server
here
in carrying out computationally
intensive
and time intensive operations so with
that end
i i mean i finished my lecture today
i would be delighted to take any
questions and answer them if you have
any
excuse me
uh i'm just looking at some of the
questions to see if there are any
unanswered questions
uh adnan could you please i hope that
your question about the relationship
between web
web server tier and the worker tier is
now
clear now if not let me know um
how is auto scaling unique to aws ec2 or
is it available for
cloud server platform there are a number
of other
aws resources like databases
rds that make use of auto scaling by no
means is it unique to ec2 only
other platforms also have it in
different names trunk that is correct
azure also has it in different names
david that's a good question that the
fact that it locks you into
using amazon web services uh you're
questioning i wonder if
microsoft and google offers the same
services
or not to the best of my knowledge i
have not come
across and
a service which is equivalent in nature
to uh
to what um to what
elastic bean stock offers i hope that
that answers your question
david i'm thinking of mining bitcoin who
is with me
um
david uh yes again you're not about
the fact that worker tier is cheaper
than web server tier
as it is not chewing up data traffic
that is correct
but remember that web server that that
the worker nodes
are specialized nodes for handling
such intensive processes
the web server nodes even if you make
them handle it
they they wouldn't be able to handle it
so gracefully
so the cost per unit works out to be
much less in the case of
worker nodes
william can this queue and i believe
you're talking about simple queue
service can it
can be bottlenecked or because you can
have a lot of servers
no no i mean sqs is a managed
service i hope that video which which i
have shown you all
um it it's i mean irrespective of how
much messages you throw at it
it can still handle them with with with
the
i mean very gracefully
linear does it mean that cues play a
buffer role no it's not a buffer role
it's just a queue it's like
um it's like where you put a message and
someone picks it up
how tank is oh sorry you can you can
just continue yeah
i'll ask later how tang is sq is a
mandatory service or an
optional service it is
i don't know what you mean i mean are
you telling in the context of
a worker environment if so
i mean there is no way a worker can
function without
a cue simply not possible
uh david yes you're very correct i mean
you you use sqs
only if you're working if you if you're
running a worker here that's absolutely
correct
ansel is a limit on number of ec2 we can
have
no i mean
you can you can you can think of any
reasonable number and you
and your environment would be able to
easily handle that
so i think we have i i've read through
all the comments and questions
but i couldn't see anything but if there
are any other questions that
either i have not answered or
i i need to elaborate on please uh
please let me know uh chris burn
does sqs also run on a vm
and is unique to each eb
application that is an interesting
question
look i can
the details about how sqs is
managed and run is not public except the
fact that its capabilities and its
pricing and its those things have been
made public
um but
when we as you have seen just now when
we set up
a worker environment you are given a
queue
so yes that queue is specific to your
worker environment
saga uh i will i will answer the i mean
i i can see this as a as a as a
recurring question about minimum and
maximum number page limit for assignment
one
can i just say that i am i'm not a big
fan
of perhaps prescribing number of pages
but i would much rather see
that you have learned something as a way
of doing this assignment
the maximum number of pages have been
specified in the assignment description
so
if my memory serves me correct
look i don't remember but they have been
specified in the assignment description
each one has a maximum number of pages
so
whilst i would recommend you to adhere
to that but what
i am very keen on is not number of pages
certainly no
i'm very keen on you showing
what you have learned as a result of
doing this
assignment and if that's that's what i
can see
i'm very happy i hope that answers your
question saga and also i can see
a number of you asking about
number of words and those things i
wouldn't have a word limit
but there is a limit on the number of
pages
but as i said i would not necessarily
uh look at number of pages as a as a as
a
guide for determining if it's a good or
a bad assignment
i would look at the assessment criteria
which has been provided to you
number one and number two as a result of
you doing this assignment
i'm very keen that you learn something
out of it
uh malini yes that is correct
uh um after we launch ec2 do we need to
terminate
uh whenever we finish slash close that's
a good question um
for those of you who are here i mean all
of you
i believe everyone in the class with
perhaps the exception of maybe
one or two students should be in the aws
classroom
and should have a very generous limit of
about 200 dollars
i would urge you all to use it wisely
so what i mean by that is when you
finish your lab please terminate
all the activities that you have done
the reason why i'm urging you all to use
it wisely is
your assessment item 3 or assignment 3
is based on aws so please
make sure that you need enough credits
for the last activity
200 is a very generous amount
but please don't use the credits just
here and there i mean
by all means use it for your learning
purposes
use it for your labs use it to practice
but when you finish
close everything or terminate everything
any other questions for today ladies and
gentlemen
i understand that some of you may have
to run for
a lab or or perhaps they already have
left which is
perfectly fine of course yes the final
question is
so we only have the working environment
here
if we run the web server here right
like if we don't have the web server
here so we don't we are not going to use
the worker environment here of course
not
okay i mean there is no purpose
for a worker here
without a web server environment here
all right
thanks
any other question ladies and gentlemen
look i'm
i'm very keen if you have got any issues
any concerns
any doubts any feedback i understand
that the early
feedback efs is open please take
some time out to fill it out i'm keen to
hear
your perspectives into what we are doing
well what we could do better so please
by all means
do that or please feel free to contact
me directly
just tag me on teams send me a message
and i should be able to respond to you
fairly quickly
okay so i take it that perhaps there are
no more questions for today unless
if i've left something that unanswered
please
interrupt me and ask me now next week
what we would be doing is today we were
just
launching environments next week we will
learn them
how to customize environments as well so
i can specify a whole host of different
parameters
so until next week i wish you all very
well
stay safe and stay healthy bye
[Music]
hmm